An 11-year-old girl was evaluated in the rheumatology clinic of this hospital because of redness of the eyes.The patient had been well until 8 weeks before the current evaluation, when she noticed mild eye redness, which was worse in the right eye than in the left eye. There was intermittent swelling of the eyelids but no photophobia, itching, pain, tearing,or discharge. The patient’s parents administered naphazoline hydrochloride and glycerin eye drops, but the eye redness did not abate. When the eye redness had persisted for 2 weeks, the patient was taken to the pediatrics clinic of another hospital. She was given a 7-day course of an oral antibiotic agent as empirical treatment for possible preseptal cellulitis.Five weeks before the current evaluation, the eye redness persisted despite treatment, and the patient was referred to the ophthalmology clinic of the other hospital.The blood pressure was not measured during this evaluation. The visual acuity with correction was 20/20 in the right eye and 20/25 in the left eye. The pupils were symmetric and reactive to light, with no relative afferent pupillary defect. Slit-lamp examination revealed abundant white cells in the anterior chamber of both eyes,with a greater amount in the right eye than in the left eye. There were also keratic precipitates, posterior synechiae, and rare iris nodules in the right eye. Funduscopic examination was notable for optic-disk swelling and peripheral retinal hemorrhages in both eyes, as well as perivascular exudates in the right eye. Cyclopentolate eyedrops in the right eye and prednisolone eye drops in both eyes were prescribed.During the subsequent 3 weeks, additional tests were performed in the pediatric clinic of the other hospital. Screening blood tests for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) types 1 and 2, syphilis, and Lyme disease were negative. An interferon-γrelease assay for Mycobacterium tuberculosis was indeterminate. Other laboratory test results are shown in Table 1. Radiography of the chest revealed hilar fullness.Dr. Maria G. Figueiro Longo: Computed tomography (CT) of the chest and abdomen, performed after the administration of intravenous contrast mate-rial, showed a normal-appearing thymus. However, diffuse lymphadenopathy was detected in the mediastinum, upper abdomen, and axillae, with the largest lymph node measuring 2.0 cm by 1.3 cm by 1.8 cm.

Two weeks before the current evaluation, the patient presented to the emergency department of the other hospital for an expedited workup. On evaluation, she described eye redness that had persisted but decreased in severity. She reported no fever, weight loss, night sweats, rash, headache, cough, shortness of breath,or joint pain. On examination, the temperaturewas 37.0°C, the blood pressure 96/61 mm Hg, the heart rate 95 beats per minute, the respiratory rate 20 breaths per minute, and the oxygen saturation 100% while she was breathing ambient air.The body-mass index was 18.3.

The patient appeared well, with no oral lesions or rash. The visual acuity was unchanged.Slit-lamp examination revealed keratic precipi-tates and white cells in the anterior chamber of both eyes, with a greater amount in the right eye than in the left eye. There were extensive poste-rior synechiae in the right eye. 
Funduscopic examination showed vitreous white cells,optic-disk swelling, perivascular exudates, peripheral retinal hemorrhages, and cotton-wool spots in both eyes. The lungs were clear on auscultation.
Urinalysis was normal.. Methylprednisolone Was administered, and the patient was admitted to the other hospital.During the next 4 days, additional tests were performed, and sputum specimens were obtained for an acid-fast bacilli smear and culture. Optical Coherence tomography revealed optic-disk swell-ing but no cystoid macular swelling. Fluoresceinangiography revealed optic-disk leakage with areas of peripheral retinal nonperfusion and some vessel leakage.

she had emigrated from West Africa To the United States 6 years earlier; since then, she had lived with her mother and father in a suburban town in New England and had not traveled outside the region. Six months before this evaluation, an interferon-γ release assay for M. tuberculosis had been positive. At that time, the patient had received a prescription for a medication to treat latent tuberculosis infection; however, the pa-tient’s parents could not recall giving the medica-tion to the patient. She was taking the prescribed cyclopentolate and prednisolone eye drops, oral prednisone, and regimen of rifampin, isoniazid,ethambutol, and pyrazinamide. There were no known drug allergies.

One year after the patient was evaluated in the rheumatology clinic of this hospital and 3 months after she completed a 9-month course of medication for possible tuberculosis, a “wobbly”gait developed while she was receiving therapy with mycophenolate mofetil (1500 mg per day) On examination during the video call, the patient was observed to have a bilateral Trendelenburg Gait. She could not stand on one leg, stand on her toes, or squat. She was instructed to present to the emergency department of this hospital.In the emergency department, the patient described aching pain in the lower back and both hips and weakness in the lower legs that had.

On examination, she appeared well.There was profound weakness on eversion of theright ankle, dorsiflexion of both ankles, and flex-ion of the left knee and both hips. Strength andreflexes in the arms were normal, as was sensationin response to light touch, pain, temperature,and vibration. Results of finger-to-nose testingwere normal; the Romberg sign and the Babinskireflex were absent. There was a wide-based gait,and the right foot dragged more than the left foot.
An MRI of the lumbar spine performed before and after the administration of intravenous contrast material,revealed an enhancing, T2-hyperintense intramedullary lesion in the lower thoracic spinal cord and conus medullaris. There was also smooth thickening and enhancement of the cauda equina nerve roots. MRI of the head performed
before and after the administration of intravenous contrast material, revealed prominence of the lacrimal glands.

Table 1(csv format)
Variable,Reference Range Other Hospital
3–6 Wk after Symptom Onset Pediatrics Clinic,Other Hospital
6 Wk after Symptom Onset Emergency Department Other Hospital
Hemoglobin (g/dl),11.3–13.4,—,10.2
Hematocrit (%),32.3–38.3,34.0,31.3
Platelet count (per μl),187000–376000,175000,233000
White‑cell count (per μl),5410–9700,5600,4690
Neutrophils,2580–5950,—,2960
Lymphocytes,1230–2760,—,900
Creatinine (mg/dl),0.30–1.00,—,0.75
Alanine aminotransferase (U/liter),3–30,28,17
Aspartate aminotransferase (U/liter),2–40,34,31
C‑reactive protein (mg/liter),0–5.0,2.8,3.6
Antinuclear antibody,Negative,Negative,Negative
Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody,Negative,Negative,Negative
