An 80-year-old woman was admitted to this hospital
because of pancytopenia and the identification of schistocytes on a peripheral-
blood smear.
Six weeks before admission to this hospital, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea
developed, along with chills and subjective fever. The symptoms resolved after
4 days without specific intervention, but then intermittent dysphagia with solid
foods and early satiety developed. During the next 4 weeks, the patient had grad-
ually progressive fatigue and light-headedness. The fatigue progressed to the point
that she could no longer stay at work for more than a few hours; she presented to
another hospital for evaluation.
At the other hospital, the patient reported that she had ongoing fatigue and had
lost 6 kg of weight over a 5-week period. On examination, the temperature was
38.9°C, the weight 55.5 kg, and the body-mass index (the weight in kilograms
divided by the square of the height in meters) 21.9. Laboratory studies revealed
pancytopenia, and examination of a peripheral-blood smear revealed schistocytes.
Blood levels of glucose and electrolytes were normal, as were the results of kidney-
function and liver-function tests; other laboratory test results are shown in Table 1.
Imaging studies were obtained.
A chest radiograph was normal. Computed tomography
(CT) of the abdomen and pelvis, performed after the administration of intravenous
and oral contrast material, revealed a small hiatal hernia, multiple simple cysts in
the right kidney, and indeterminate bilateral pelvic masses measuring 4.8 cm in
diameter on the right side and 6.3 cm in diameter on the left side

On hospital day 2, the hemoglobin level decreased to 6.6 g
per deciliter, and two units of packed red cells were transfused. Esophagogastro-
duodenoscopy revealed diffuse esophageal inflammation with white exudates
throughout the esophagus; examination of brushings revealed yeast consistent
with candida, and treatment with fluconazole was initiated.
 During the next 3 hospital days, the patient continued to feel unwell, with persistent feverand limited oral intake due to odynophagia, and the administration of intravenous fluids was continued. Blood and urine cultures showed no growth. On hospital day 5, empirical therapy with doxycycline was started because of con-cerns about a possible tick borne illness.On hospital day 6, the oxygen saturation decreased to 89% while the patient was breathing ambient air and then increased to 94% when oxygen was delivered through a nasal cannula at a rate of 3 liters per minute. CT of the chest,performed after the administration of intrave-nous contrast material, revealed ground-glass opacities and interlobular septal thickening,findings consistent with pulmonary edema,along with bilateral pleural effusions of a small to moderate size. The administration of intrave-nous fluids was stopped, and one dose of intravenous furosemide was provided.On hospital day 7, fever resolved but pancyto-penia persisted. Examination of a peripheral-blood smear revealed a moderate amount of schistocytes, severe anisocytosis, large platelets,and an increased amount of bands without blasts. Direct and indirect Coombs’ tests were negative, as were nucleic acid tests for babesiosisand anaplasmosis. Blood levels of electrolytes,glucose, cobalamin, folate, homocysteine, and anticardiolipin IgG and IgM were normal, as were the results of kidney-function and liver-function tests. The results of serologic tests forEpstein–Barr virus were consistent with previous infection. Flow cytometry of the peripheral blood showed phenotypically normal myeloid cells;there was an increased amount of atypicalCD34+ myeloblasts, which accounted for less than 1% of leukocytes and were of unclear clinical significance.A tunneled catheter was placed in the right internal jugular vein, and plasma exchange was initiated for the treatment of possible throm-botic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP). Totalparenteral nutrition was also initiated, because oral intake was still limited by odynophagia.On hospital day 8, oral intake of soft foods and liquids increased. A transthoracic echocar-diogram showed normal left ventricular size and function, as well as a mildly thickened aortic valve with no stenosis or regurgitation; there is trace mitral and tricuspid regurgitation. Onhospital day 9, the patient underwent additional plasma exchange and was transferred to this hospital for further care.On evaluation in this hospital, the patientreported that her energy level had increased. Sherecalled that she had felt mildly confused at theother hospital, but the confusion had since re-solved. She had had no gum bleeding or bloodin the stool or urine. Other medical history in-cluded hypertension and dyslipidemia. Surgicalhistory included hysterectomy at 40 years of age,with no vaginal bleeding since the procedure.One year earlier, routine laboratory testinghad revealed mild thrombocytopenia and anemia.A bone marrow biopsy performed at that timehad revealed slightly hypercellular marrow withmaturing trilineage hematopoiesis but with someerythroid abnormalities and occasional hyper-chromatic megakaryocytes; cytogenetic analysishad shown a loss of chromosomes 3 and 5 and again of chromosome 8 in 65% of the cells. There-after, blood counts monitored every 4 months,including 4 months before this presentation,had remained stable; laboratory test results areshown in Table 1.Medications included amlodipine, atorvastatin,and hydrochlorothiazide. There were no knowndrug allergies. The patient drank alcohol occa-sionally and did not use illicit drugs. She hadsmoked tobacco for 50 years but had quit 5 yearsbefore this presentation. She was widowed andlived alone in New England; her work involvedcleaning a church several days a week. 
